CHAPTER XIII. GETTING INTO THE RIGHT BUSINESS
Success in any particular business depends for one thing upon your possessing in a well-developed
state the faculties required in that business. Without good musical faculty no one can succeed
as a teacher of music. Without well-developed mechanical faculties no one can achieve great
success in any of the mechanical trades. Without tech and the commercial faculties no one
can succeed in mercantile pursuits. But to possess in a well-developed state the faculties
required in your particular vocation does not ensure getting rich. There are musicians
who have remarkable talent and who yet remain poor. There are blacksmiths, carpenters and
so on who have excellent mechanical ability but who do not get rich. And there are merchants
with good faculties for dealing with men who nevertheless fail. The different faculties
are tools. It is essential to have good tools but it is also essential that the tools should
be used in the right way. One man can take a sharp saw, a square, a good plane and so
on and build a handsome article of furniture. Another man can take the same tools and set
to work to duplicate the article but his production will be a botch. He does not know how to use
good tools in a successful way. The various faculties of your mind are the tools with
which you must do the work which is to make you rich. It will be easier for you to succeed
if you get into a business for which you are well equipped with mental tools. Generally
speaking you will do best in that business which will use your strongest faculties, the
one for which you are naturally best fitted. But there are limitations to this statement
also. No man should regard his vocation as being irrevocably fixed by the tendencies
with which he was born. You can get rich in any business for if you have not the right
talent you can develop that talent. It merely means that you will have to make your tools
as you go along instead of confining yourself to the use of those with which you were born.
It will be easier for you to succeed in a vocation for which you already have the talents
in a well developed state. But you can succeed in any vocation for you can develop any rudimentary
talent and there is no talent of which you have not at least the rudiment. You will get
rich most easily in point of effort if you do that for which you are best fitted but
you will get rich most satisfactorily if you do that which you want to do. Doing what you
want to do is life and there is no real satisfaction in living if we are compelled to be forever
doing something which we do not like to do and can never do what we want to do. And it
is certain that you can do what you want to do. The desire to do it is proof that you
have within you the power which can do it. Desire is a manifestation of power. The desire
to play music is the power which can play music seeking expression and development.
The desire to invent mechanical devices is the mechanical talent seeking expression and
development. Where there is no power either developed or undeveloped to do a thing there
is never any desire to do that thing. And where there is strong desire to do a thing
it is certain proof that the power to do it is strong and only requires to be developed
and applied in the right way. All things else being equal it is best to select a business
for which you have the best developed talent but if you have a strong desire to engage
in any particular line of work you should select that work as the ultimate end at which
you aim. You can do what you want to do and it is your right and privilege to follow the
business or avocation which will be most congenial and pleasant. You are not obliged to do what
you do not like to do and you should not do it except as the means to bring you to the
of the thing you want to do. If there are past mistakes whose consequences have placed you in
an undesirable business or environment you may be obliged for some time to do what you do not like
to do but you can make the doing of it pleasant by knowing that it is making it possible for you
to come to the doing of what you want to do. If you feel that you are not in the right vocation
do not act too hastily in trying to get into another one. The best way generally to change
business or environment is by growth. Do not be afraid to make a sudden and radical change
if the opportunity is presented and you feel after careful consideration that it is the right
opportunity but never take sudden or radical action when you are in doubt as to the wisdom
of doing so. There is never any hurry on the creative plane and there is no lack of opportunity.
When you get out of the competitive mind you will understand that you never need to act hastily.
No one else is going to beat you to the thing you want to do. There is enough for all. If one
space is taken another and a better one will be opened for you a little further on. There is
plenty of time. When you are in doubt, wait. Fall back on the contemplation of your vision
and increase your faith and purpose and by all means in times of doubt and indecision
cultivate gratitude. A day or two spent in contemplating the vision of what you want
and in earnest thanksgiving that you are getting it will bring your mind into such close relationship
with the Supreme that you will make no mistake when you do act. There is a mind which knows all
there is to know and you can come into close unity with this mind by faith and the purpose
to advance in life if you have deep gratitude. Mistakes come from acting hastily or from acting
in fear or doubt or in forgetfulness of the right motive which is more life to all and less to none.
As you go on in the certain way opportunities will come to you in increasing number
and you will need to be very steady in your faith and purpose and to keep in close touch with the
old mind by reverent gratitude. Do all that you can do in a perfect manner every day but do it
without haste, worry or fear. Go as fast as you can but never hurry. Remember that in the moment
you begin to hurry you cease to be a creator and become a competitor you drop back upon the old
plane again. Whenever you find yourself hurrying call a halt. Fix your attention on the mental
image of the thing you want and begin to give thanks that you are getting it. The exercise
of gratitude will never fail to strengthen your faith and renew your purpose. End of chapter 13